README.md, before:

# sinsy-project

## Programming Project 1

This is a collection of Python scripts for interacting with Sinsy.

Sinsy is a HMM-based Singing Voice Synthesis System that uses MusicXML files
as input.

Please refer to the Documentation directory for more information.

## Required software:

- Python 2.7 - http://python.org
- SoX - http://sox.sourceforge.net

## Optional software:

- Sinsy - http://sinsy.sourceforge.net/

## Misc software:

- MuseScore - http://musescore.org

Useful for viewing and playing both MusicXML and MIDI files. Can convert from MIDI to MusicXML.

## Alternative Singing Voice Synthesis software

This project focuses on Sinsy, however there are other software packages
that can be used for singing synthesis.

### espeak / ecantorix

From the espeak website:

> eSpeak uses a "formant synthesis" method. This allows many languages to be provided in a small size. The speech is clear, and can be used at high speeds, but is not as natural or smooth as larger synthesizers which are based on human speech recordings.

- espeak - http://espeak.sourceforge.net/
- ecantorix - https://github.com/divVerent/ecantorix
- Examples: https://github.com/divVerent/ecantorix/wiki/Songs

### festival

- festival - http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/
- flinger - No longer available

### UTAU

- UTAU - http://utau2008.web.fc2.com
- Moresampler, Arpasing (Kanru Hua) - https://webhost.engr.illinois.edu/~khua5/index.php/2017/02/26/introducing-arpasing-for-english-utauloids/

### Software Automatic Mouth (SAM)

- SAM - https://github.com/s-macke/SAM

Commit message:

A comment on the purpose of this fork
A comment on the purpose of this fork and who is responsible.

README.md, after:

# sinsy-project

## Algorithmic Composition Experiments

This fork is intended to expand the capability of the original stochastic song implementation, and upload bug fixes from my local version.
 -- A.L. Uitdenbogerd

This is a collection of Python scripts for interacting with Sinsy.

Sinsy is a HMM-based Singing Voice Synthesis System that uses MusicXML files
as input.

Please refer to the Documentation directory for more information.

## Required software:

- Python 2.7 - http://python.org
- SoX - http://sox.sourceforge.net

## Optional software:

- Sinsy - http://sinsy.sourceforge.net/

## Misc software:

- MuseScore - http://musescore.org

Useful for viewing and playing both MusicXML and MIDI files. Can convert from MIDI to MusicXML.

## Alternative Singing Voice Synthesis software

This project focuses on Sinsy, however there are other software packages
that can be used for singing synthesis.

### espeak / ecantorix

From the espeak website:

> eSpeak uses a "formant synthesis" method. This allows many languages to be provided in a small size. The speech is clear, and can be used at high speeds, but is not as natural or smooth as larger synthesizers which are based on human speech recordings.

- espeak - http://espeak.sourceforge.net/
- ecantorix - https://github.com/divVerent/ecantorix
- Examples: https://github.com/divVerent/ecantorix/wiki/Songs

### festival

- festival - http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/
- flinger - No longer available

### UTAU

- UTAU - http://utau2008.web.fc2.com
- Moresampler, Arpasing (Kanru Hua) - https://webhost.engr.illinois.edu/~khua5/index.php/2017/02/26/introducing-arpasing-for-english-utauloids/

### Software Automatic Mouth (SAM)

- SAM - https://github.com/s-macke/SAM
